so today we're it's going to be a
whirlwind
all right so
first thing that we're going to do is
talk a little bit about what we've
covered so far so on day one we
went through an introduction right what
is coaching what is therapy and how do
we understand uh
what gets in the way of our clients
achieving their goals on the screen
share with y'all
there we go
and so what we kind of came to is this
you know diagram of this is their intent
this is the resistance they have to
overcome
and then once they overcome their
resistance they're prone to take action
and so on day one we sort of went over
an overview of this model
and the key takeaways from the overview
of this model are that the reason that
people can't find motivation is because
they kind of you they use one term oh
i'm unmotivated right
but the truth is that motivation
involves a number of different
physiologic psychologic
neuroscientific spiritual behavioral
economics there are lots of different
disciplines that look that go into what
motivation is and the reason people stay
stuck is because they don't have the
precision to figure out where is my
problem is it a problem of intent am i
not like do i not really want it or am i
conflicted am i ambivalent is there a
part of me that should get up at 8 am
every day but there's a part of me that
wants to stay up till 4 a.m every day so
that internal conflict makes their
intent kind of scrambled so they can't
really act
is the problem resistance so even if i
really want to do something and my best
example of this is people who are like
very very lonely so people who are very
very lonely will want to make friends
will want to find a romantic partner
will want all of these things and their
intent is a hundred percent they want it
more than anything else in the world and
yet they still can't do it so if we kind
of diagnose that person's motivational
problem what we'll probably uncover is
that there's resistance there's some
amount of shame that they experience
some amount of identity problems that
they have so if we kind of talk about
resistance you know there's two
components to it there's like emotions
and identity there are other things as
well but that's kind of how we break it
up
and so how can you as a coach even if
their intent is fully clarified how can
you help them overcome their resistance
and so today we're going to kind of talk
about i think the nuts and bolts of what
most people expect from like goal
setting and motivation which is the
action and the key point here is that a
lot of people come in and they like want
to jump right towards their goals but
it's been my experience and hopefully
you all have seen this too i'm pretty
sure y'all have
that people who focus on the action
right away without focusing on the
obstacle and the energy going into their
their goals
are the ones that
tend to get blindsided and feel stuck
because they're like oh i know what i
need to do but i can't bring myself to
do it and then they go and keep on
looking for magical solutions to their
problems
but they don't need a magical solution
what they need to do is fix the problem
to begin with right they need to remove
the resistance they need to remove the
obstacles
so now what we're going to focus on is
actually how to set an appropriate
action and how to help your clients like
succeed in the goals that they set
and today we're going to cover four
things we're going to talk about setting
a goal we're going to talk about science
a little bit and evidence-based or
scientifically valid validated
um points or like understandings that
will help your clients achieve their
goals
so there are lots of different
psychological principles and other
things at play that we can kind of
leverage to optimize a client actually
achieving their goal then we're going to
talk about troubleshooting goals and
then the last thing that we're going to
talk about is give you all a good solid
cognitive framework to think about the
dimensions
of a goal so that you can try to figure
out where a problem within a goal exists
questions
okay so let's jump in
so
setting a goal
how do most clients set goals
they look at what other people are doing
very good right so monkey see monkey do
what else
they have a desire to sort of achieve
something
okay
so let's say that that my
so uh
goal is based on achievement right
is that fair to say kent
yep
so i know this sounds kind of weird but
like when we use the word goal
like what we're kind of focusing on is
like the end of the road the achievement
right so like if i have a goal like
what's like a goal is like i want to
become an olympic gold medalist
that's the achievement right most of the
time when our clients think about like
goals they set it based on the target so
it's like a target focus fair
end of the road
where else where do you think goals go
what else like where else do your
clients goals come from any other ideas
sometimes there are consequences of
their current behavior and they want to
change it
but what do you mean by that eli
um like i guess sometimes like i have a
few clients who maybe want to lose
weight because of you know what it's
like to be physically active and so they
like set a goal
to
be more fit
can you help me understand how they
decided to set the goal to be more fit
i guess the adult to you last point
would it be like
reaching like a certain like emotional
feeling like happiness
okay so sometimes they're chasing
a feeling
or there's like a correlation with their
goal like
that's that's kind of a good point so
like
i think that if i get promoted i will be
happy
is that a good way to put it
if i'm
you know all of my life would be better
if i got
jaw surgery and made my jaw extend
further from my face and then i could be
a strong john male
right
so like they're sort of their goal
correlates with
some what's actually their goal
correlates with their values but it's
not directly chasing the value it's like
chasing some approximation of the value
it's an excellent point
okay
so the the i think the key thing here is
that a lot of clients will set goals
based on what they see other people do
um you know what that target is and they
may even attribute some inappropriate
things to that target so this is like
grass is greener on the other side
right so the first thing that i kind of
want to point out is that like
goal setting is not a systematic or
thought out process it's not methodical
at all it's just sort of like they wake
up one day and they're like oh this is
what i should do
right and all of the the societal
conditioning and stuff kind of comes in
so first thing that we can help people
do in terms of coaching is to set an
appropriate goal we can actually
set like use a systematic process to set
the right kinds of goals for the for our
clients and help them achieve it
and our first kind of
approach to setting a goal
is the 25 rule
and so what we kind of say is here's
where our clients are
here's where they want to go so here's
the goal
and so what clients try to do is they
try to think okay how do i get from here
to here which makes perfect sense that's
the nature of a goal right if this is
like olympic gold medal
like of course
they're gonna think about how do i get
to an olympic gold medal
but the problem is that this actually
this approach
does not scientifically kind of set us
up for success so the first thing that
we're gonna do is we're gonna ask them
okay between where you are and where you
want to go
what's the halfway point between that
and then what's the halfway point
between that and this is usually the
first general target that we want to set
and there are a lot of things that we're
engaging by doing this process
the first is that our brain has this
circuit that sort of you know measures
progress towards something
and it's it's able to tell that like
okay if i if i work out today
how close am i to achieving my goal not
very close at all and so when the gap
between what i'm capable of
and what i want to achieve
is wide
it decreases motivation
right so i'm curious
do any of y'all like want to be
president of the united states
like who thinks it would be cool to be
president
i think it would be pretty cool
right so like why don't you strive for
it every day brian
that's really hard and very abstract
absolutely right so what we see is that
the gap between what you're what you
believe you're capable of or what you
the actions you can take and what you
want to achieve actually decreases
motivation so the first thing that we're
going to do is like shrink the goal like
to the first target so there's also like
positive psychology and things like that
that are involved here so when we shrink
the first target you know we increase
the likelihood of positive reinforcement
right we kind of open our ourselves up
to like being successful
and like all kinds of other stuff so i'm
i'm gonna ask you all so maybe you guys
know so if i if i were to tell one of my
clients hey i know you have this goal
over here but why don't we start over
here what is your client going to say
what's their resistance to it
it's not enough or it's not important
beautiful not enough so we're going to
get that okay we just want to table that
eli
we'll talk about how to deal with that
in a second okay
so the first thing that we want to do is
set a reasonable goal okay
um and
the 25 rule is kind of
how to sort of frame it i think this is
a goal that we also really discovered
worked very well in our parent coaching
program so there are a bunch of parents
who feel like their kids are addicted to
video games and so they came to us and
they said oh my god can you fix our
children can i sign them up for coaching
and we said no your kid isn't the
problem you need to sign up for coaching
and some parents get really really upset
with that they're like they're the one
who's playing video games all day and
i'm like you're their parent if they're
doing something all day it's your fault
i don't say that say it in that way but
our parent coaching program we don't
work with the kids we work with the
parents and the first thing that we do
is help the parents understand that
the goals that you want to achieve you
want your your kid to start running
track and never play video games and and
do all their chores
and be home for like show up at the
table and set the table and eat dinner
like they're not gonna do that right
that's a completely inappropriate goal
for you to set let's meet the kid where
they're at what does the kid want what
do they care about you know what are
they capable of
and so in terms of setting this goal
like there's a couple of good techniques
that you can use that can get people to
to buy in a little bit
so
um you know you can ask questions like
uh
you know where can you start
so this is kind of emphasizing
this point instead of this point okay
so like asking the client so if they say
oh it wouldn't be enough
focusing on the start sort of
dismantles then not enough somewhat does
that make sense
because then it's not like there's no
there's no enough if you're just talking
about where to start is enough has to do
with hitting your target it doesn't have
to do with like where you are it has to
do with where you want to go does that
make sense
so you can kind of ask clients where you
can start and then you can also ask them
like you know
what did you do over the last week
so you want to sort of emphasize where
they are
but right so if someone wants to like
diet for example or lose weight or
whatever you know if someone wants to
find a new job you can kind of ask them
okay what effort like what did you do
over the last week in terms of like
moving towards this goal and chances are
they'll say nothing
because they haven't started on the goal
yet right which is kind of fine so you
kind of
approach them with a little bit of like
compassion and then you can say okay
that's totally fine so if you didn't
work on it last week so where's your
this is your baseline kind of telling
them this is your baseline
okay and kind of cognitively i know it's
kind of weird but people don't do this
right
they don't sort of think about where
they are is their baseline they think
about where they are is a negative does
that make sense like cognitively
so
and so that cognitive shift is
incredibly important right so like
instead of the gap of like in the
negative numbers
you know this is kind of where they are
so all they see is a deficit whereas
like this line actually belongs here
because that's where you're starting
so you can sort of
set this out as your baseline and then
kind of ask the question you know what's
the like and then you can kind of get
back to where where can you start
um but you can sort of ask the question
like
you know what what's one step you can
take
above the baseline
right so this is where like once you
frameshift to the baseline of where they
are it adjusts their expectations so
using these techniques like does a lot
of things like adjust expect
adjust expectations
which correlates with increased success
it also has a present focus
which correlates with in increased
success it meets people where they're at
which correlates with increased success
it models
acceptance
for them about where they are and this
also
leads to increased success
so what we're going to use is like use
this kind of frame shift and use some of
these techniques to recruit several
principles that are correlated with
better outcomes
questions about that
okay so just to give you all kind of a
quick example so you know let's say okay
i want to i want to get healthy all
right what did you do last week
i didn't exercise at all and i ate you
know i ordered like uber eats every day
okay
so like let's take that as your baseline
sounds like you've got a long way to go
you want to kind of acknowledge right
you want to acknowledge their goal you
want to acknowledge the gap you want to
acknowledge the feeling of not enough
then you can say okay where do you think
is the so for someone who doesn't
exercise and kind of is eating out every
day what do you think would be a
reasonable goal for like that person to
start
like what do you think is the first step
they need to do
and then this is where your client will
say well i guess they need to start
working out every day and it's like no
no i don't think that's reasonable
that's like that's do you think that
someone who didn't work out zero days in
the last week can start working out
every single day
and then you kind of like they're like
no well i don't think that that's really
possible so like okay so like what do
you think is possible
you know do you think working out a
single day is like possible for this
person all right let's try let's see
what happens i understand that it feels
like it's not going to be enough to you
and frankly it's not going to be enough
let's just acknowledge that
but what's enough and what you're
capable of are two different things
where you want to go and what your
baseline is or two different things okay
you all get that
so what we're going to do is set our
goal at 25
of where they want to go
and then or maybe even smaller and then
sort of have this kind of discussion of
where their baseline is defining their
baseline and moving upward from the
baseline
and that sort of recruits positive
reinforcement and being successful
instead of this gap between what they're
capable of and what they want to achieve
and will positively enhance our
motivation
it also has the added benefits of
adjusting expectations
helping people retain a present focus so
people will ask the question how do i
stay focused in the present it's not
something you can do right you don't
just stay focused in the present as a
coach what you're going to do is model a
certain kind of behavior that forces
them to be in the present and then their
brain will learn oh this is how i stay
in the present they're not even going to
realize that it's happening to them but
over time they will start to be more
present focused as you direct them to be
like to force them into the present by
sort of focusing on baseline instead of
goals
it meets people where they at where
they're at which i think you guys all
understand the value of and it also does
things like models acceptance right
you're not judging them for their
baseline you're kind of saying oh so you
don't work out at all and you eat out
every day like okay that's where we're
gonna start you're not spending the next
15 minutes beating them up about how
they could do better or how they're
pathetic or whatever so you're gonna
start to adjust their self-talk by
modeling acceptance okay so that's how
we set a goal
questions before we move on
okay
evidence-based goal setting
section number two
so there
there are uh
a number
of different kind of scientific
principles that we can we can kind of
leverage
to optimize how to set a goal okay
so number one
is advice giving
and why not to do it
number two is going to be
operationalizing
and understanding the frontal lobe
number three is going to be done in
krueger
yeah so these are going to be the three
things that we're going to focus on so
the first is when you give people advice
how effective is it
it's not very
effective absolutely right so why is
that you all know
i think because like the advice we give
them doesn't take any like context of
their situation
okay very good
right so oftentimes it's invalidating
yep so advice can be invalidating it
doesn't um
kind of
it doesn't seem to
land right like so presenting people
with information we've talked about
explicit memory and implicit memory and
all that good stuff
so the other problem with advice giving
is that it tends to be like a gut
reaction so the other thing about goal
setting that most people tend to do is
that it's like a gut reaction they like
wake up one day and they're like i need
to get in shape
right they just sort of set this
arbitrary goal
so there's evidence that shows that
instead of giving people a solution if
you want to engage them in behavior give
them a choice
so choice is greater than advice
or solutions
so i know it sounds kind of weird but
this is just a very simple technique
which there have been there's been a ton
of research on
which is like if someone wants to lose
weight if you tell them okay let's
develop an exercise plan that is not as
likely to succeed as if you ask them hey
so if you want to lose weight do you
think a dietary approach would be better
or like an exercise approach would be
better and then if they say exercise
approach
and then you kind of run down that like
that will actually be more likely to
succeed even if you give them the answer
at the beginning giving them the answer
at the beginning and letting them choose
the answer is actually like leads to
different outcomes even though you both
settle on on the same answer which is
kind of weird right because generally
speaking when we think about
the success of an endeavor we think the
endeavor is what results in success so
if i exercise
i will lose weight if i don't but the
the really interesting thing about human
psychology is how you get to the
conclusion of exercise actually
drastically affects your outcome in
terms of whether you're successful or
not
and so this is also where we're going to
draw on nobel prize winning economist
daniel kahneman
and so remember that where do goals come
from monkey see monkey do
right
where goals come from is our gut
so human beings do not engage in a
methodical process
of designing goals
they just rely on their gut it's driven
by emotion or their goals or what they
see by other people and so this is
called type one reasoning which is the
big discovery that daniel kahneman made
and the interesting thing about choice
is that choice starts to recruit type
two reasoning
and what kahneman kind of realized is
that human beings have two ways that
they make decisions
one is type one which is like gut so
this is like easy
to do
and it feels very logical
so a good example of this is is if you
look at like uh you know research on
advertising
if i put a display of oreos
like front and center
in like a grocery store and then someone
purchases oreos
and then i asked that person why did you
buy the oreos what are they going to say
it was in front of me that's actually
incorrect they will never say that
they'll say it's because
they wanted them absolutely
the reason so kent your map hacking bro
the reason they bought it is because it
was in front of them
but
the reason they think they bought it is
because of something that feels very
logical this is a big discovery that
that matt packing can
this is a big discovery that um daniel
kahneman made is that people make gut
reactions but they think that their gut
reactions are well thought out
so an example of type 2 reasoning is
differential diagnosis
so generally speaking type 2
reasoning is cognitive
it's intense
and it feels bad
people don't enjoy doing it they
actually don't enjoy being like logical
or methodical
so literally what we have to do with
doctors is we have to spend years like
literally years of cognitive training
for them to go from this to this
so generally speaking a doctor usually
has a hypothesis about what's wrong with
a patient within five minutes of like
seeing the patient sometimes even less
like you kind of got an idea of like
what's going on
but what we spend years actually
training is to not trust our gut and
start to be systematic in the way that
we approach patients and that's how we
don't miss things okay so there's a lot
of really interesting research as well
about you know why uh family members
shouldn't be physicians because it's
hard for family members to do type 2
reasoning with like with your family or
sorry it's hard for physicians to do
type 2 reasoning with their family so
the interesting thing about type 2
reasoning is that this leads to better
results but it feels really hard it's
like cognitively very intense you know
when um you know if you're studying and
you find studying boring that's like an
example of like type 2 reasoning it's
not it's a bit of a stretch there but
all of the activities that human beings
find like cognitively cumbersome or
boring tend to be closer to type 2
reasoning and the real tricky thing that
also kahneman discovered is that
everyone thinks they operate from here i
mean sorry everyone thinks they operate
from here but most people actually
operate from here most of our decisions
like when you think about what you want
to eat today you don't sit down with a
chart of all possible foods and do
calculations about caloric inputs and
vitamin needs and like all this kind of
stuff it's sort of like i kind of feel
like eating this
right if you think about your grocery
shopping like you may have a list but
where did that list come from it wasn't
a list of all possible things that you
could eat it was sort of like okay we
need more of this well where did that
idea come from well
the fruit bowl is empty so we need more
bananas like it's all just random ass
gut-oriented non-methodical thinking
this is also where advice comes from
right so like if you think about it and
someone gives you advice
you know if you talk to someone about
their pro your problems
how much time do they spend thinking
about what's the best advice they could
get it's a fluid conversation they spend
all of like two seconds if even that
right they listen to you for a while
like hey i think you should do this even
i do that
so what i present on stream most of the
time when i'm doing q a is type one
reasoning it's just like my gut so you
can refine your gut over time and we'll
kind of get get to that but this lecture
is type two reasoning
it took a long time for me to like write
out right so i have like a whole script
i sat down i can answer questions about
motivation but if i actually want to
offer like a complete educational
experience i have to do type 2 reasoning
and it takes me like six or eight hours
whereas like i can just show up and talk
about motivation that's easy peasy lemon
squeezy done
y'all with me
so
here's how we're going to help our
clients we're going to engage in type 2
reasoning by giving them a choice so you
as a coach are going to ask open-ended
questions okay so if our if our target
is is wait okay let's
someone give me a target that i can run
through for the whole lecture
what's a target
what's something that people want to do
what do you mean by target just like
what's a goal that someone will come in
on
like
okay i'm gonna take one from chat it's
work out
okay
this is our target
so
one of the the questions that we could
ask people is you know we could ask
people okay like um
what are the ways
in which you could work out
okay so we're gonna start with like an
open-ended question and then they're
gonna give you a couple of answers like
uh like it's like most of the time when
people say work out like they're gonna
jump straight to like i need to go to
the gym every day y'all see that it's
like automatic there's not even like uh
what are my options and then they they
say like like even asking that question
is gonna lead to like i suspect a small
uh like improvement in outcomes okay so
they can say i can go to the gym i can
work out at home
i can go for a run so you want to
generate as many options as you can okay
i could work out with friends
i could do push-ups
while i'm waiting in queue for a game
right and so like you want to generate
as many options as you can and then i
know it sounds kind of weird and then
you just repeat the options back and
you're like which one do you think
which which one do you want to do do you
want to try
so already in this process like maybe
the gym sucks like like sure that's what
other people do right like other people
go to the gym but i have a ton of social
anxiety and feel ashamed of myself so
that may be a terrible idea
but like that person
without your help they're gonna have
this goal they're gonna come up with a
solution based on type one reasoning and
they're gonna stay stuck forever and
never work out that's why people wanna
work out and don't work out because they
don't go through this process so just by
generating this process we begin to see
okay this is what your individual
preferences are what do you want to try
and they can say okay i want to try
working out at home
okay so you've already won there like
that's already better than like what
most people do
so the next thing that we want to do is
just like kind of refine that choice
over time right so like what could you
do at home
right they're like oh i guess i could do
like push-ups
i could do yoga
i could do
parkour
you know like whatever like they can
come up with whatever like stuff they
want and we'll kind of get to the
different dimensions of goal setting at
the end but the key point here is that
you want to give them a choice
because when people make a choice and
you all remember from the stages of
change change model this is why planning
and action are actually like
scientifically or psychologically
discreet steps
they're not the same planning it
planning an action is the one that most
clients like don't realize are actually
cognitively discreet steps so this is
all planning phase
okay from stages of change model
and so this is how you work with someone
in the planning phase you give them a
menu of options and then what happens
when you give them a menu is they're
going to gravitate towards the most
likely scenarios and sort of set
themselves up for the most success okay
questions about
giving people choices instead of advice
oh one question so
does this evidently lead to like a
solution for that for the client
yep yes right okay so like this is gonna
end up with a plan
like instead of jumping straight from i
want to work out to the gym this is
going to be like okay you're going to do
yoga every morning
and then you're going to do push-ups
while cueing
for a league of legends game
while you're waiting for fortnite cue
okay like that that's how you develop a
plan this is going to be like more
attainable for them
and we'll get to you know why this for
example probably won't work but anyway
so the second thing that we're gonna do
so this will lead to a plan but it's one
of the steps of planning brian so the
second step of planning is
operationalizing do you guys know what
operationalizing a problem is you all
heard that term before
like breaking it down
yep breaking it down
what does that do for us
makes things concrete
yep how does that help
well now they're not abstract and you
can actually do them because something
abstract is essentially like
insurmountable
okay very good right so you can't take
abstract action
i can't get into shape it isn't possible
welcome forrest by the way bro how you
been
surviving and thriving
awesome dude
good to see you
um
what else how else would y'all describe
operationalizing
it kind of increases the amount of
achievable steps there are in absolutely
achievable steps
okay
so we have this part of our brain called
the frontal lobe all right and the
frontal lobe is good at operationalizing
so i don't know if you guys kind of know
this but you know like when some kids
uh apply to college their parents help
them manage the application process
y'all familiar with that
so let me ask you something why does the
kid
need the parent
to help them with the application
process
and how is it that the parent is able to
help them with the application process
to begin with
right why can't the kid just do it on
their own
just apply to college easy
well isn't it because like two things
like one and never applied to college in
two i guess they don't understand like
the actual process of like falling
through that decision
yeah right so so it's really interesting
because like maybe the parents have
applied but not always
and then the second thing is that like
the parents may have some ability to
like understand the process so we have
this part of our brain called the
frontal lobe and the frontal lobe is
responsible for executive function
and what executive function means is the
ability to plan and execute tasks
so it's like a literally this ability to
operationalize so if i look at you know
so this is kind of my favorite example
but it applies to college and stuff too
so if i tell by a two-year-old to clean
her room she can't do that
i can tell her i can ask her to put her
books away so she can do that
but she can't clean her room because
cleaning her room is an abstract
process
and based on what her frontal lobe is
capable of
i have to break as an adult i have to
break it down into books
toys
and pencils
right and even if you look at the
the brain of a one-year-old they can't
even put away the pencils but i can tell
them hey here's a pencil can you go put
it in the box
so like putting things in boxes
right so if we look at what's the
difference between an adult and a kid
maybe it's experience but it may not
even be experience it's just that an
adult has a fully developed frontal lobe
so they can take this abstract process
of applying to college and like divide
it into chunks
and give their kid like a chunk that
they can manage
and so if we talk about you know like a
six-year-old or a ten-year-old a
ten-year-old can clean their room right
and even like
theoretically because i imagine we have
a lot of people myself included who
don't have clean rooms
um
so even sometimes adults can't clean
rooms but
so this is the process of executive
function so one of the ways that you can
help people succeed is like if i tell a
two-year-old to clean their room they're
gonna fail like they're destined to
failure so as a coach you can help
someone
by operationalizing for them
operationalizing is a very cognitively
intensive task that once again is like
you know difficult for people to do they
may think they can do it they may beat
themselves up for you know because they
should be able to do it but they may
actually be hard it may be hard to do
and this is something that's also a
little bit theoretical i don't know
there's actually good science behind
this but in my experience gamers
especially are very bad at
operationalizing
problems
so if you look at video games
all of the operationalizing has been
done for you right there's part one of
the main quest part two of the main
quests part three the main quest part
for the main quest part five of the main
quest and then there's the final boss
so gamers excel a lot they actually do
really well with something that i call
close-ended problem solving
which is when they're given a discrete
task and all of the tools necessary
okay so if i like tell a gamer hey i
want you to
build a car
out of tape
they'll actually be able to do that
like you give them a task with the goal
very clear and all of the pieces laid
out it's basically like they're good at
assembling legos
right they're awesome at legos
because you could tell them hey i want
you to build you know a tree with legos
they can do that
um maybe even superior to the the
average population by the way what
they're bad at is open-ended
problem-solving
which is
things like
getting into college
right because what like what are the
pieces of that like i don't really know
like who where do i apply to i don't
really know do i apply nationally
internationally like
you know
you know like i i don't know i don't
know like where to start with that so as
a coach one of the key things that you
can help them do is convert an
open-ended problems uh problem into a
closed-ended problem you want to act as
their frontal lobe and break an abstract
task
into achievable steps
right and so this is we kind of did this
right here
do you all see that this is actually
operationalizing for them okay so you're
gonna do yoga every morning notice how i
defined am over here so how did i get
that it's because i'm gonna ask another
question when
could you do yoga
right so this is how we're going to
operationalize and break the task apart
so this week what you're going to do
you're not going to find a job
this week what you're going to do is
we may even say something like
make your resume but that's even too
abstract this week what you're going to
do is google three different resume
templates take a look at them and decide
which one you want to use
then what you're going gonna do is
you're gonna replace the demographic
information at the top so you're gonna
replace the john smith at the top with
like your actual name and your address
and then what you're gonna do is grab a
piece of paper and write down all of the
things that you think could belong on
the resume
that's your task for the week right it's
like two or three tasks but they're like
super simple if you really think about
it takes like less than half an hour and
then next week they've already started
adding they're editing their resume at
least the top part is done the next week
it's going to be translating what they
put on their piece of paper onto the
resume
and once you do that then we're going to
look at your resume together and we're
going to try to figure out okay how can
we make this sound good so you're going
to take one task on your resume and
you're gonna try to like sell it in some
way
so for example if you were
president of your esports
gaming association in college
right like how can we buff that up some
so you can state that and then you can
say i increased membership over 300
percent like over the course of one year
you know organized a 50 000 charity
tournament and organized 200 students
into like organized an event
that involved sponsors 200 students and
all that kind of stuff so you're
demonstrating on your resume like
president of esports or what does that
mean like is that a thing but when you
start like
listing things out that like an employer
will be like oh wow so this person can
like get stuff done this is actually
pretty cool they organized an event
okay so you may have to help them a
little bit with their and and that may
be a little bit tricky in terms of
resume building but do you all see how
the key thing is breaking apart the
pieces of like making a resume
is that clear
so you want to operationalize out their
task as best as possible
when you do that the chances of them
being able to succeed will be a lot
better
key other things you know so when we
talk about achievable steps that also
you know helps us uh where is it
where's positive reinforcement there it
is
right so we get a plus there and we get
a plus there as you kind of do these
things okay
so we're going to help them with their
frontal lobes the cool thing is as you
engage in this process with them over
time
you're engaging in type 2 reasoning
which will
over time actually become type one
reasoning
okay so then they'll actually get
automatic at doing this kind of stuff
they'll be able to break apart tasks for
themselves so the first time i teach my
kid how to clean up their room
i have to like direct them right but as
they practice their brain is able to
operationalize that task and i could
even take them to a house they've never
been to and i could say clean up this
room and they could do it
make sense
so that's the second thing that we're
going to kind of focus on
our second principle that we can
leverage so now we're going to move on
to number three which is dunning-kruger
so
dunning-kruger graph
has
um you know so this is
unconscious
this is competence
right so i i may be miss attributing
this
so
generally speaking we start up here
where we're unconsciously incompetent
and at the end we end up this may not be
done in kruger actually
i think it relates to don and kruger but
and up here we sort of end up with
unconscious competence i'm a natural
right and if we think about playing a
video game like you know there are times
where
you suck
and you intentionally try to get better
and your brain is like doing the
cognitive work
so
and then over time you know so this is
conscious incompetence and then we move
over here
to
conscious competence
right that's what what this is over here
and then eventually we move up to
unconscious
competence and then it becomes easy so
we're natural over here
over here we're oblivious
so one of the key things this is
a little bit more anecdotal or based on
my own experience
but i think our goal so a lot of people
when they think about achieving their
goals what they want to do is they want
to go from here to here
right this is where you start i suck i
don't know how to work out this is me
working out every day
i think our job as a coach is not
actually to move along this axis
our job as a coach is to push people
down here
what we want them to do is to start
thinking about it right so what we
really want to emphasize is like
conscious thought process we want to
emphasize type 2 reasoning we want to
emphasize being methodical we want to
emphasize being critical of your process
we want to emphasize problem solving in
a very organized and conscious way this
is being thoughtful being mindful being
present all that crap
so one of the key things that that this
process does
right is we ask people these like
different kinds of questions and things
like that is we're making the process of
goal setting become competent conscious
so you don't know how to set a good goal
that's fine even after asking you a few
questions you're going to be down here
you're still not going to know how to
set a good goal right you may come up
with push-ups between while cueing but
who the does push-ups while queuing
no one come on that's ridiculous
right
the point though is not that these are
gonna succeed we'll get there in a
second when it comes troubleshooting
goals and iteration and all that kind of
stuff the point of doing this exercise
is that people are going to be thinking
about it in a critical and calculating
way
that's ultimately what leads to success
in goal setting
is bringing things from the unconscious
to the conscious and now that we're
aware of the problem right because
remember that most of our problems are
lying dormant they're invisible we can't
detect them and then we can't deal with
them you all know this through coaching
right this is what the emotional
catharsis is you all have done this with
all of your clients where you've helped
them understand something in a way that
they didn't understand anymore
and that understanding proceeds change
so we know this you guys already know
how to do this process i suspect just
keep doing what you're doing
and once it's conscious then we can
start acting on it right you don't go
from here to here you don't go from here
to here you go from here to here then
you start doing being successful but
being successful involves being
conscious first
then you become successful and then it
becomes easy then you get to the person
who's in shape and you ask them how hard
is it for you to work out and they say
it's not that hard
it's natural for me and this is where
everyone wants to go but since all of
our clients want to go from here to here
they want to actually ignore where the
money happens this is where change
happens change happens down here not up
here and as long as they keep on doing
this they're doomed to failure
so your job as a coach is to help them
become conscious
even if they fail be conscious
be conscious of your failure because
that's what's going to help you succeed
questions about that
okay
now we're going to move on to
number three on our big topics which is
troubleshooting goal setting
okay
so what are the problems with the goals
this open-ended question kind of read my
mind question what are the problems with
the goals that our clients set
what are the different kinds of
challenges they have with goal setting
let's even don't even think about what
they set what are the what are the
problems that what when you when clients
come in
what are their what are their challenges
around like setting goals or
you know just
okay
chats helping expectations oh what does
that mean expectations
oh they have like
like a higher like expected outcome
based on their actions okay so
very good so they're gonna have overly
ambitious goals
what else
maybe goals that don't really align with
their values
very good misdirected goals
what else
the last one
is remarkably
common
and
also really easy to miss
because i may be set is setting it up to
fail
they lack goals
right we see this too where someone
comes in and they're like i don't even
know where to start
there's no point anymore
right so we still have to think about
that person in terms of goal setting
like we owe it to that person to help
them find an appropriate goal okay so
here's the problem that we run into with
goals is that some people lack goals to
begin with
and they don't know where to start how
should we deal with the person who lacks
goals
what do you all think
maybe kind of trying to understand them
a little bit more try and get a feel for
like
what they want to do absolutely right so
like this is where the first like we
just need to understand them
so before we figure out where we want to
go let's like triangulate our gps and
figure out where we are
right so where are we
what's going on in your life
right so and this is you all know how to
do this i'm pretty confident right so
they don't they feel overwhelmed they
feel directionless they feel hopeless so
it's like all these questions about okay
like why do you feel hopeless like where
does the hopelessness come from you know
why don't you have like you know you
don't ask why questions but um you know
what makes it hard for you to pick a
direction to go and you're gonna uncover
all kinds of crap like oh there's no
point in trying okay like when did you
give up hope like when did you learn how
to give up hope you guys know all this
stuff right pretty familiar we good okay
so if they lack goals it's going to be
like
exploratory work
it's not about directing them anywhere
it's about exploration
so for clients who have overly ambitious
goals
what are we going to do for them
start with the 25 rule
sure so 25 rule is good
what else
why are their goals overly ambitious
um i think we would
try to make them
like let them figure out that their goal
is actually ambitious
yep good so increase in sight
into
overly ambitious goals
good
i'm pretty confident that you guys are
able to do that as well but why are
their goals ambitious
eli
you figured this out some time ago
because yeah they're comparing
themselves to others and it's not
it's not enough all that crap right so
this is where
enter all of the things that you guys
are already experts in shoulds
not enough
comparison
ahamkar
all this crap comes in
so the key thing here is you've got to
deconstruct the idea of should
right and i think you guys know how to
do this
because what does that mean like
or enough
because like that's not a thing
enough is not a thing
right and you can make the argument that
it is a thing you can say okay i did not
get a score high enough to pass the
class
dr k clearly that's the thing i didn't
pass the class okay fair enough
so like enough can absolutely be a thing
there's a reason why there's a word for
it but i would say that most of the
times
whether
some
outcome is enough or not enough because
enough is an outcome orientation
whether you do something that is enough
or not enough is completely or whether
it's enough or not enough is completely
independent of what you do
does that make sense
so i can study every day
or i can study as much as i can and
maybe that'll be not enough
but
do i want this to determine what how i
take action in the present
or do i want to focus on this and then
just hope that this happens so the
problem with the idea of not enough is
that as people are like thinking about
not enough it actually paralyzes them
from taking action and destroys their
motivation so you really have to
deconstruct the idea of like enough and
should and all this kind of crap through
all of these things which i know you all
can do so you kind of do that if they
have overly ambitious goals right and
then on a more practical level so this
is like on a philosophical level
what you need to do as a coach
oh no i missed an oh
and on a practical level you can help
them set more ambitious goals and be
prepared for that resistance right and
so you like as soon as you try to use
the 25 rule on them they're gonna say
it's not enough but you're gonna be
ready for them because you know all this
stuff and then you're gonna be like
let's talk about that right you're gonna
work through all this crap then they're
gonna set an appropriate goal and then
they're more likely to achieve it we
good
another key point here is that sometimes
people confuse goals with wish lists
i don't know if you all have ever done
this yourselves or you've heard someone
else or where like you start to set a
goal for yourself and then you start
tacking more on
it's like i should work out every day
and i should eat healthy and i should
have a smoothie every morning and then
like goals like quickly like spiral into
wishlists and then it's like
everything when a goal turns into a wish
list you're destroying your frontal
lobe's ability to do any of it it
becomes overwhelming it's too many goals
so you're going to help them kind of
scale back okay
so number three
the misdirected goal
so this is
the hardest thing about coaching
is that sometimes clients come in and
they have the wrong goals and you may
say dr k that's ridiculous how can a
client have a wrong goal isn't it for
them to determine aren't they the ones
to decide incorrect sometimes our
clients are stupid let me give you an
example so i had a client that came in
one day and said dr k my boat is sinking
i need a bigger bucket i need a bigger
bucket this bucket is not big enough to
get all the water out of my boat
can you give me a bigger bucket
and what they need to do is plug the
holes
so like this is where type one reasoning
comes in again right because it's clear
because the person's logical if they've
got a bigger bucket they can bail water
faster and they'll you know like that's
what that'll fix it right
but their goal is coming from like an
incorrect understanding of the problem
and this is where you can roll in a
bunch of stuff that we've talked about
like jung's shadow
right we can talk about things like
alexithymia
you know like psychological defense
mechanisms like suppression
we can talk about ahamkar
blind spots
right because the ahamkar won't let them
see where the real problem is
oh yeah like if i'm a narcissist the
problem is that everyone else is like
very insensitive to me people need to be
more insensitive to me
you know it's like everyone around me is
an everyone around me needs to
be nicer it's just like i need a bigger
bucket no the problem is something else
like so your job as a coach is to help
people access all this crap
cognitive biases
and i know you've done it i know all of
y'all have done it
where a client will come in and will be
like you know we'll say one thing and
then you're like hey wait a second what
you're saying actually doesn't make any
sense you point out the discrepancy you
point out the cognitive bias you point
out the ambivalence
right so oh i just need to start
drinking after 5 p.m i just need to not
drink early
well
what how do you get to that conclusion
well because when i drink after 5 pm
everything is fine when i start early
it's a problem whereas like the real
problem is like maybe you've got a
problem with alcohol you should be
drinking at all
so there are all kinds of things that
can result in a misdirected goal
so this is once again where y'all you
know i'm pretty sure you guys know how
to deal with this
right do you all feel comfortable with
like people who have misdirected goals
right so and this is where building a
therapeutic alliance is really good this
is also where like remember as a coach
you're not like you're not there to just
agree with whatever they say you're
there to challenge them so with clients
who have misdirected goals like it's a
good place to challenge them once you
have an alliance and you can say hey i'm
wondering you know if maybe there's a
different way to think about how to fix
this problem once again recruit type 2
reasoning
to help them think about you know how
they could deal with this problem
otherwise like what's a creative
solution to your problem
because their solutions are not
individualized they're not based on
their own creativity they're based on
what someone on the internet what worked
for someone on the internet
i watched this
person who did this on the internet this
is what worked for them so that's what
i'm gonna do
maybe you have a different problem
okay
questions about troubleshooting goals
or troubleshooting goal setting i should
say
okay
so um
now we're going to talk about one other
thing in terms of uh
kind of how to iterate so we're going to
talk about iteration for a second
so our approach for goal setting and
motivation at healthy gamer is to not
achieve your goals it's to iterate
success is not our target learning is
our target
so i don't know that we can succeed but
we can certainly try to learn
so what we're going to do is we're we're
going to give you guys a robust
framework for this but you know expect
your clients to succeed some
and fail some
and then what we're gonna do is like do
kind of like a post-mortem analysis of
like okay why did you fail what got in
the way things like that the key thing
that i want to share with you all is a
really fascinating
uh other i guess scientific principle
for lack of a better term actually comes
from public health is something called
positive deviance so often times when
our clients have goals and they fall
short of their goals their emphasis is
on the failure and what they could do
better
but the interesting thing is that
the recipe to success is not necessarily
and what they could do better it's
actually in the times that they already
succeeded
so this is a quick story that i'll share
with y'all so these were the people who
sort of discovered positive deviance
there were a group of uh doctors from
france in the us
that were tasked by the world health
organization or someone like that to fix
malnutrition in rural vietnam
really fascinating story you guys can
check out the book positive deviants
um so what they did is they went to
vietnam and they sort of made all these
arrangements and the vietnamese
government said like okay our people are
malnourished and so these folks were
like okay do you all have food that we
can give them and the vietnamese
government was like yes because the
problem to malnourishment is food aid
right like if you're in a developing
country and people don't have food to
eat gg like you just need food just get
food easy bro
so then they show up and it turns out
that there's been some kind of
communication problem or maybe
corruption and the food aid is no longer
there and they've like set they've taken
sabbaticals and they're like traveling
to vietnam they're going to be there for
like six months but now they don't have
any of the resources that they were
supposed to have to fix this food aid
problem
and so the vietnamese government was
like or whatever the health
department or whatever was like we can
give you a van lodging and a translator
can you please help us with this problem
can you please help our population
become less malnourished without any
food
and so these people are like sure why
not and so the malnour like the rate of
malnutrition amongst like pediatric or
amongst kids because it was focused on
children was something like 50
and so the researchers had this really
interesting idea which is like you know
there are a thousand people in in let's
say this part of rural vietnam
and half of them are malnourished that's
terrible
but why aren't the other half
malnourished
like it's kind of interesting because
there's actually a success
there's like some people are not
malnourishing like what's up with that
and so what they sort of discovered was
like this principle of positive deviance
which is that if you're trying to figure
out how to fix a problem
don't focus on the people who are
unsuccessful or don't focus on your
attempts that are failures focus on your
attempts that are successes and by
emphasis by exploring why you were
successful then and duplicating that you
will actually fix the problem of failure
in and of itself as it turns out for
those of you who are curious what they
discovered is that most of the people
are malnourished because they're rice
farmers and so their primary staple of
their diet is rice so they get enough
calories but they just don't get enough
like protein and micronutrients and
stuff like that
and so what they discovered is that some
families
when they're out in the rice fields
there are different kinds of like things
that are growing in the rice fields so
you'll get like small like clams and
shrimps and things like that and that
some people would literally like have an
apron and any time they saw like some
tiny bit of fish like like a small fish
or a clam or like a shrimp or like some
kind of you know
water organism crustacean they would
scoop it up and stick it in their apron
they also found that that this same
group of people that there were certain
weeds that would grow in the rice fields
that are actually very nutritious but
are considered like poor people's food
so in the in the southern united states
for example like if you look at it
historically like collard greens were
foods that like slaves would would eat
because they were considered less
desirable so like you know the the slave
the plantation owners would eat like the
desirable vegetables and then the slaves
would eat the collard greens collard
greens are delicious by the way
and so if you look at recipes for
collard greens they all involve like you
know like off cuts of pork and things
like that so you add like a little bit
of bacon and like other like types of
meat that you can't it's hard to eat but
if you add it to collard greens makes it
delicious
so um what they sort of discovered is
that there's kind of this social stigma
against eating this like nutritious
vegetable
and so that's the way in which like half
of the population was not malnourished
while the other half of the population
was and so by sort of discovering that
success and applying it to the other
people by teaching the people oh hey you
should scoop up shrimp too they also did
a couple of other interventions like um
they had like they set up like a meal
plan where like one family would cook
every day for like five or six different
people so they kind of got together and
shared their cooking duties said like
one pot of stew that would serve five
families and that worked really well too
so discovered a couple of other things
but essentially the the the idea behind
positive deviance is when you're working
with a client our tendency you know if
they let's say they you know did yoga
for three days
and then like failed for four days
and their target was
yoga
every day qd means daily medical
abbreviation okay
so then what you what we want to do is
we can say oh why did you feel like what
happened what got in the way but i
equally important is asking them you
know
why did you succeed
what were the circumstances
for the first three days that allowed
you to succeed and what changed on day
four so oftentimes i've noticed this
bias in how people solve problems is
that everyone focuses on the negative in
problem solving right if you kind of
think about it i do this kind of stuff
in all dimensions whether it's
investment banking working with traders
working with physicians around like like
you know
uh bad outcomes with patient care even
in esports because what everyone focuses
on on esports is the games that they
lost not the games that they win do you
ever watch replays of the games that you
crush the opponent not usually right
usually if you want to learn we focus on
your mistakes
um
so
recruit positive devious deviants and uh
focus on
how your clients are able to succeed and
duplicate that process to troubleshoot
goals questions
okay
last one i recognize i'm out of time
dimensions of goals so this we're gonna
run through very quickly there'll be a
lot more um information in the manual
okay
so when we think about a goal
much like our original
um
diagram there's a lot of value to be
gained out of something like motivation
and actually breaking apart motivation
into multiple things
because there isn't like one motivation
lever but when we break it apart into
different things we can like adjust the
levers in different ways
so if we think about even something like
language so the more letters we have the
more we're able to like
compose different words right so
increasing the resolution on which we
can act increasing the precision at
which we can make changes will lead to
better outcomes so there's also like a
balancing influence and that you know at
some point we decided that a collection
of letters should make a word instead of
you know having one unique word i mean
one unique symbol for each word which is
what hieroglyphics is which is also like
if you look at um you know chinese
characters or kanji if you look at
emojis right so there's like an
interesting balance between like what's
the resolution of like letters versus
symbols
and what we can see is if you look at
something like emojis you can
communicate things very effectively by
like increasing the precision as we
expand the number of emojis at our
disposal we become more efficient
communicators
so what we're going to do is expand the
precision with which we look at a goal
and so here are the dimensions that i
would encourage all to think about with
a client and work on okay so the first
is the target
so this is what we kind of think of
traditionally is the goal like
become an olympic gold medalist right so
what are the ways in which we can adjust
the target so the goal here is that
each of these dimensions can be explored
and adjusted to help us attain success
okay
so should we change our target so this
is where the 25 rule
comes in okay
second thing is what are the actions
so this is also where like
operationalizing comes in because
oftentimes we set goals that are not
actually actions so to explicitly take a
goal a target and reduce it to actions
we'll we'll operationalize will make
things easier abstract to concrete all
that good stuff so this is all uh this
is all stuff that hopefully all will
understand
it's just an organized framework that
y'all can use with a client okay so what
are the actions that we can take
third
dimension is exploring examples
of
success
and failure
right so very practically
what you can do with a client is you can
ask them you know once they if they set
a goal for themselves and they come in
next week and they say i succeeded i did
it for the first three days and then i
forgot and then i didn't do it again so
we can explore that okay how do you feel
about that you know what what do you
what do you understand about what got in
the way what made it hard for you to to
do it the last four days
uh it's also kind of bizarre because it
seems like you were crushing it for 72
hours how do you understand that right
so that's positive humans we just talked
about that but still a part of our
framework you can you can explore
examples of success and failure and the
key things is what are the key
what are the key takeaways
from these successes and failures that
once you make these key takeaways
conscious
you have increased your clients ability
to like engage in them again right so
we're going to dunny krueger we're going
to move along to dunn the dunning-kruger
uh
curve by asking this question
so um this is also an opportunity to
explore resistance
right so like when you fail like there
may be like resistance there
could be and then once again emotions
ego etc
a good question here is what gets in the
way
so you don't want to ask the question
why did you fail you want to ask the
question you know it seems like you were
able to do yoga the first three days
what got in the way the fourth day and
so what even if you think about that
question what you're instead of them
saying oh i'm a failure right like
instead of letting them retreat to their
identity and it was doomed to fail and
all this kind of stuff i am dot dot dot
you're raising awareness about an
external factor that could be
influencing them which then they can
control
so for example what you may discover is
i wanted to do yoga but i actually like
overslept because i stayed up way too
late and that's really interesting right
because then you've sort of discovered
oh the problem isn't boosting your
willpower the problem is if you want to
do yoga consistently you need to fix
your sleep schedule so it could be an
issue of a misdirected goal
dimension number four
um
okay so i had actually split these uh in
my
in the framework i'd actually split
these into two different things so
examples of success in exploring failure
and then going down the route
of resistance okay so that's number four
okay so there are some things here that
we're going to include for the sake of
completeness which is not really within
the scope of coaching so then if we also
think about it there are physiologic
factors
right so people could have circadian
rhythm disorders they could have vitamin
d deficiency they could have um they
could be hypothyroid they could have
testosterone deficiency they may be
vitamin b deficient there are all kinds
of physiologic factors they may be in a
high
a high inflammatory state which makes
people like feel kind of sluggish and
makes it hard to work there's a lot of
physiology that goes into motivation a
little bit outside of the scope of
coaching
but i just include it here for
completeness this is also where we can
think about things like sleep and diet
and exercise as being physiologic
factors psychological stressors
so when you have a goal i know it's this
is going to sound really simple but i
don't think that people really
appreciate this it's everyone sort of
intellectually understands it
but they don't really understand it on
an implicit level
and they're not consciously aware of it
that you know if you're overwhelmed
or stressed
or had a bad interaction at work
that's going to impact your ram
right so like we all have a limited
amount of ram working memory
we all have like limited amounts of like
energy in our frontal lobe we have
limited amounts of willpower
and what you'll see time and time again
is like you know when people get sober
for example
oftentimes there's a psychological
stressor
like their ex started texting them again
which sort of precipitates the relapse
so there are all kinds of psychological
stresses that can contribute to
difficulty in achieving your goals
okay so you can ask them you know what's
been stressful for you over the last
week
um
when when things get stressful how do
you think that will affect your ability
to meet your goals because generally
speaking what people the conclusion they
tend to come to is oh i suck at this if
i was better if i could manage stress
better
then i would succeed so the failure is
mine but by sort of pointing out
explicitly that their psychological
stressors which will make their life
hard you allow them to do things like
forgive themselves demonstrate
self-compassion you also give them axes
so if i think the problem is that i'm a
failure and that i can't handle stress
well
that's not actionable whereas if you
reframe the problem you take that
misdirected goal and you help people
recognize that you're human
and that if you get stressed it's hard
to work out you're going to stress eat
more maybe the solution is not to be
increase your willpower because i don't
know how to do that
but maybe the solution is to set better
boundaries with people who create stress
in your life
and that if you really want to work out
every day the first step is to actually
set boundaries with people who are very
stressful
so psychological stresses
next thing is social influences i kind
of bled into this with the last one but
i think it's actually very important to
explicitly acknowledge what the social
influences towards your goal setting are
who are the people that you hang out
with so there's a there's an entire
video about this in dr k's guide on
sangha which is in the meditation path
and the path of accomplishment
so you know like
if you
you know what do your roommates
inspire you to do
you know how do your parents
um
affect your motivation
and there's some interesting
like revelations here which not a lot of
people realize because like parents
think they're being supportive right
they'll go to their kin they'll say oh
my god you have so much potential
like you can do anything you're so smart
oh my god you're so smart you're so
brilliant
you have so much potential how do you
think that affects a kid's motivation
makes it worse
absolutely right the parent thinks that
they're
helping they're actually making things
worse
oh my god you're such a wonderful boy i
don't know why you can't find a
girlfriend you're so handsome
and you're so wonderful and you're so
sweet you're such a catch
i don't know what why the girls just
don't like you like i don't understand
what's going on well first of all mom
i'm gay
you know
so that's part of it
um anyway so like it's kind of
interesting but i think once again the
goal is to consciously make people aware
so like you know you have your friends
right
and so like but what are your friends
actually motivate you to do like when
you spend more time with your friends
what how do your behaviors evolve when
you hang out with your friends
do you
play more video games
eat healthy food like what happens
what's the influence explicitly
understand what's the influence of
different people in your life
and even in cases of like romantic
partners right like so i this is a
really
surprisingly common example
so sometimes you'll have a married
couple
and one member of the married couple is
motivated to change their diet
and then they start eating healthy and
what does the other member of the
married couple do
they start eating healthy too
you would hope so if only that were the
case
can anyone imagine the opposite
if you're resentful
absolutely
right so sometimes steve sometimes
you're correct
i tend to be kind of pessimistic
so i see the dark side of things and
what tends to happen is the other
partner feels ashamed
right because it's like i still want to
eat my doughnut
and there you are eating oatmeal it's
like i just want a doughnut and then i
feel bad about myself because you're
sitting there eating oatmeal and i'm
sitting here eating a doughnut i feel
like an idiot
and then i resent you and then i start
to sabotage you and then i start to get
in the way
happens all the time
right and you may see this kind of thing
like even within your like online
friends right i love them but sometimes
they're like oh no man like play one
more don't quit
play one more like we're gonna crush
them like let's do it bro
don't don't quit don't go to sleep yet
i'm not going to sleep yet what's wrong
with you putting together your life
screw that
let's play
so social influences
right thinking about so a couple of
explicit questions here who holds you
back
who pulls you forward
and there are a couple of other
revelations to be had here as well
so the first is that
sometimes the people that make you feel
bad are actually the ones that pull you
forward i certainly had this experience
at harvard
where i felt like holy crap these people
are amazing and every time i talk to
them i'm like you did what
you have how many publications that's
insane
you have a picture with barack obama
because you served in the health
department and helped him
pass the affordable care act like that's
crazy bro
right
like that's what you wind up with and
you may feel some amount of like
resistance
to hanging out with those people but
helping your clients understand who are
the people in their lives that pull them
forward and what's the resistance to
hanging out with them
can actually be very helpful
next thing is environmental influences
okay
and by environmental influences this
one's pretty straightforward
but it's it's things like access to cell
phone
so like where is your cell phone
when you're trying to work
is it in your pocket is it easily
accessible is it locked you know what's
the status of your notifications
when do you get distracted how do you
get distracted where do you study
is it the library is it at home
what are the environmental influences
that are going to lead to success once
again going back to the working out
example right so we kind of asked people
like
gym or home that's key it's crucial
so a lot of these dimensions are baked
into everything that you guys are
already doing which is by the way part
of the reason that you all have the
outcomes that you do despite never
having had this training because it's
all baked in you're already doing it but
by giving you this framework hopefully
it'll help you be a little bit more
focused and
increase the value that you bring to
your clients so right now after spending
eight weeks with one of y'all lovely
people our clients feel 25 more in
control of their lives that's awesome
25 control in eight weeks is like really
amazing no one ever feels 100
right it's just not going to happen
there's some issues with the data so 25
is actually objectively very good
and so as we sort of teach you the these
kinds of things my hope is that we'll be
able to bump you all from like 25 to 30
percent
um
and then the last thing this is kind of
weird
this isn't really so much for the
average client but matters more in terms
of like performance coaching and things
like that is i like to think about
stakeholders
so like what are the different
stakeholders for the goal that you're
trying to achieve
um and this is kind of important because
this is kind of goes back to the married
couple example but sometimes for the
goals that you have
they're actually like other people who
don't want those goals right so if
you're trying to get promoted for
example that's a great example of like
doing this like we're doing a
stakeholder analysis is very helpful
to help your clients recognize that
there are things outside of them that
are going to be influencing them and
actually consciously thinking about
those things can help you adapt your
goal and adapt your actions to
accommodate for those stakeholders this
is definitely something that we'll talk
more about so as we sort of um we're
probably going to do like a relaunch of
performance coaching at some point we'll
talk a lot more about this
but it's just i'm kind of including it
here for the sake of completeness
okay so i've run
way over time i apologize i wanted to go
fast